---
title: BatchMC
description: >-
  An introduction to the functions in /BatchMC
authors: [pengxin, xin]
date: 2025-07-10 22:45:00 +0800
categories: [Tutorials, BatchMC]
tags: [BatchMC]
---

## MMC

(

`iter_scheme`: `Literal['Gaussian', 'Cauchy', 'Uniform'] = Gaussian`

`maxiter`: `<class 'int'> = 100`

`temperature_init`: `<class 'float'> = 1000.0`

`temperature_scheme`: `Literal['constant', 'linear', 'exponential', 'log', 'fast'] = constant`

`temperature_update_freq`: `<class 'int'> = 1`

`temperature_scheme_param`: `float | None = None`

`coordinate_update_param`: `<class 'float'> = 0.2`

`device`: `str | torch.device = cpu`

`verbose`: `<class 'int'> = 2`

)



    

## initialize_algo_param

(

)



## run

(

`func`: `Any | torch.nn.modules.module.Module`

`X`: `<class 'torch.Tensor'>`

`func_args`: `Sequence = ()`

`func_kwargs`: `Optional[Dict] = None`

`fixed_atom_tensor`: `Optional[torch.Tensor] = None`

`batch_indices`: `Union[NoneType, List[int], Tuple[int, ...], torch.Tensor] = None`

)


        Run MC Algorithm.

        Parameters:
            func: the main function of instantiated torch.nn.Module class.
            X: Tensor[n_batch, n_atom, 3], the atom coordinates that input to func.
            func_args: optional, other input of func.
            func_kwargs: optional, other input of func.
            fixed_atom_tensor: Optional[th.Tensor], the indices of X that fixed.
            batch_indices: Sequence | th.Tensor | np.ndarray | None, the split points for given X, Element_list & V_init, must be 1D integer array_like.
                the format of batch_indices is same as `split_size_or_sections` in torch.split:
                batch_indices = (n1, n2, ..., nN) will split X, Element_list & V_init into N parts, and ith parts has ni atoms. sum(n1, ..., nN) = X.shape[1]

        Return:
            min func: Tensor(n_batch, ), the minimum of func.
            argmin func: Tensor(X.shape), the X corresponds to min func.
            grad of argmin func: Tensor(X.shape), only output when `output_grad` == True. The gradient of X corresponding to minimum.
